v2.0.0: Refactor for sample-wise parameterisation (#171)
nf-core/genomeassembler: docs/usage.md

## Introduction

This pipeline is designed to assemble haploid (or diploid inbred) genomes from long-reads. `nf-core/genomeassembler` can take ONT and HiFi reads, and supports different assembly strategies. The pipeline can also integrate information on a reference genome (e.g. closely related individual) and short-reads for quality control.
This pipeline can perform assembly, polishing, scaffolding using long-reads, HiC data, or a reference, and annotation lift-over from a reference genome.

> [!NOTE]
> Phasing is currently not supported.

![Pipeline metromap](images/genomeassembler_v2.light.png)

Since it is often difficult to know which tool, or assembly strategy will perform best on a dataset, `nf-core/genomeassembler` can also be used to compare outcomes of different approaches in one run.

> To compare different samples, a column named `group` is required, which should contain the same value for all samples that should be compared to each other.

Reviewer: Two unknown characters at the end of this line.

## Samples and grouping

This pipeline is intended to support two main use-cases:

- either a larger set of samples is assembled using a shared set of parameters and settings set mostly via params,
- or a single, or few samples, are assembled using different strategies, typically with the goal of comparing strategies to identify the best approach for a given dataset.

In the second case, it is likely that several samples will use the same inputs (i.e. reads). Such samples can be put into one group, by assigning them the same value in the group column of the samplesheet, and for these samples pre-processing of reads will only be done once per group, instead of once per sample. This can be used to avoid unneccessary redundant work on the same set of inputs and will only affect preprocessing and reporting, where these samples will be displayed together.

> [!WARNING]
> Grouping should **never** be used for samples that use different input files.

## Choice of assembly-strategy and assembler

Assembly strategy is controlled via `strategy` (either pipeline parameter or sample-setting), and assembler(s) used are chosen via `assembler` (either pipeline parameter or sample-setting)

> `nf-core/genomeassembler` currently supports the following assembly strategies:

Reviewer 2: There is something weird going on on github at least: 

<img width="1464" height="275" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/224d4e52-3711-4b85-8f0c-955f8f955d66" />

![Pipeline metromap](images/genomeassembler.light.png)

Since it is often difficult to know which tool, or assembly strategy will perform best on a dataset, `nf-core/genomeassembler` can also be used to compare outcomes of different approaches in one run.
To compare different samples, a column named `group` is required, which should contain the same value for all samples that should be compared to each other.

## Parameterization

Parameters for this pipeline can either be supplied **globally**, e.g:

- via `--paramname value`,
- or in a config with `params { paramname = value }`,
- or a yaml with:

```yaml
---
params:
  - paramname: "value"
```

or as **sample parameters**, by adding a _correctly named_ column to the samplesheet. In the above example this would be a column named `paramname`.

Sample parameters take priority over global parameters, if both are provided the sample-specific parameter will be used for that sample.

> [!NOTE]
> The parameter names will be used in subsequent sections. Since all parameters can be provided per-sample or pipeline wide, no examples will be given.

> The list of all parameters that can be provided globally is available [here](params.md), parameters that can be set per sample are provided at the [end of this page](#sample-parameters).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The list of all parameters that can be provided globally is available [here](https://nf-co.re/genomeassembler/parameters/), parameters that can be set per sample are provided at the [end of this page](#sample-parameters).
```

  - `shortread_R`: shortread reverse file (paired end)
  - `paired`: [true/false] true if the reads are paired end, false if they are single-end. The `shortreads_R` column should exist if `paired` is `false` but can be empty.

But samplesheets can grow more complex if a range of strategies should be compared in a single pipeline run. A list of all possible columns can be found at the [end of this page](#sample-parameters)

> [!INFO]

> > It is strongly recommended to provide all paths as absolute paths

Reviewer 2: Deosnt render, not sure why not

```bash
NXF_OPTS='-Xms1g -Xmx4g'
```

# Sample Parameters

This section lists all possible parameters that can be set per sample.
If parameters are not provided, they are inherited from the pipeline parameters; see params for default settings.

## Sample information

| Parameter | Description  | Type     |
| --------- | ------------ | -------- |
| `sample`  | Sample name  | `string` |
| `group`   | Sample group | `string` |

## Reference Parameters

Options controlling pipeline behavior

| Parameter   | Description                                | Type      |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| `ref_fasta` | Path to reference genome seqeunce (fasta)  | `string`  |
| `ref_gff`   | Path to reference genome annotations (gff) | `string`  |
| `use_ref`   | Use reference genome                       | `boolean` |

## Assembly options

Options controlling assembly.

> > NOTE: hifiasm_args and flye_args will be passed to the respective assembler in all cases. If the same assembler is used in different strategies, these need may need to be parameterised per sample.

Reviewer 2: different syntax then other notes, I would unify
